The Project Gutenberg eBook of The incredible slingshot bombs
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The incredible slingshot bombs

Author: Robert Moore Williams

Release date: February 20, 2025 [eBook #75427]

Language: English

Original publication: Chicago, IL: Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, 1942

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE INCREDIBLE SLINGSHOT BOMBS ***





                    The Incredible Slingshot Bombs

                       By ROBERT MOORE WILLIAMS

              It was only a slingshot, but it hurled more
              death than a thousand-pound bomb. Where did
               Tommy Sonofagun get those deadly pellets?

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Amazing Stories May 1942.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Illustration: Tommy Sonofagun drew back the sling and let fly with a
pellet.]


"You go over to the other ridge," the sheriff said to the two deputies.
"If he tries to get out that way, stop him. But remember, we want him
alive, _if we can get him that way_."

I only half heard what the sheriff said. My attention was fully
occupied by the dogs down in Ten Mile Valley below us. I couldn't see
them but I could hear them bugling down there in the cedar thickets.
Baying slowly and mournfully, they were searching for the lost trail. A
creek ran down the middle of the valley. Probably Tommy Sonofagun had
crossed the creek and thrown the bloodhounds off his trail. Tommy might
be a moron but he had enough animal cunning to lose a pack of hounds
that were after him.

His name wasn't really Tommy Sonofagun. It was Tommy Britten, but the
loafers around Brock's Tavern had taught him to say that his name was
Tommy Sonofagun. _They_ thought this was funny.

The sheriff and I watched the two deputies tramp down into Ten Mile
Valley, but we lost sight of them before they reached the farther
ridge. The steel towers of an electric high-line ran along this ridge
for a couple of miles, then dipped down and crossed the valley. The
transmission line carried current from the big dam about twenty miles
to the north. When the war first started, there was some fear that
enemy agents might sabotage this high-line and the sheriff had spent
most of his time out in the hills guarding it.

The sheriff was a big, raw-boned mountaineer by the name of Tim
Hoskins. He wore store clothes like they were overalls, he was long and
lank, and if you took one look at him, you had the instant impression
he had just enough sense to come in out of the rain, and no more. If
you took a second look and noticed the slow cautious way he talked and
the slow but damned sure way he moved, and especially if you looked at
his eyes, which never faltered from the gaze of any man, you would be
likely to decide you were damned glad you lived in a country where they
had sheriffs like this.

"What do you make of it, sheriff?" I asked.

He was carrying his left arm in a bloody sling. Before he answered he
adjusted the sling so his arm hung a little easier. Then he shook his
head. "I don't know, Ben. I just don't know."

I'm Ben Hopper, and for the past four years I've been owner and
publisher of the Summit Press. I'm also editor of this paper,
advertising manager, circulation manager, business manager, proof
reader, and copy boy. The Press is strictly a one man country paper,
but it prints the news, which was why I was out here in the hills.
There was news out here. Maybe it was mighty big news, too.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was going to ask some more questions but the clatter of an
over-worked motor interrupted me and I turned in time to see a car
banging up the gravel road toward us. It was a gray Ford coupe and I
needed only one glance to recognize it and to know who was driving it.
Ellen Briscoe. Uncle Sam sent her out here to try to teach the people
on the hill farms how to keep from starving to death. The Relief Lady,
the mountaineers called her. She was coming up the hill road like she
didn't know there was any such thing as tire rationing. Steam popped
out of the radiator as the car reached us. She was out of it almost
before it stopped rolling.

"Hello, Ben," she said to me.

"Ellen, you got no business being here," I protested.

She ignored me. She had business wherever she wanted to be, which was
anywhere anybody was in trouble. "Sheriff, what's this all about?" she
demanded.

Hoskins scraped a toe against the rocky ground. "I--I don't know for
sure, Miss Ellen," he said.

"I heard about it in Summit," she said. "And I came right up here. They
told me in Summit that you had organized a posse and gone after Tommy.
Sheriff, what has Tommy done?"

Those were the words she used. The tone of her voice said more than the
words.

The sheriff wore out a lot of shoe leather before he answered. "Sim
Brock swore out a warrant," he said at last. "I don't have any choice
about serving it."

"Sim Brock swore out a warrant, did he?" Fire flashed from her eyes.
"Don't you know those loafers down at the roadhouse Brock runs are
always teasing Tommy?"

"I know, Miss Ellen," the sheriff said uncomfortably.

"Were they teasing him and did he strike at one of them? Is that why
you've got this posse after Tommy?"

"No," the sheriff said. "They might have been teasing him before it
happened but I don't know that they were. The warrant charged Tommy
with blowing up Brock's barn."

"Blowing up his barn!"

"That was the way Brock swore out the warrant."

"And you believed Sim Brock?" Ellen demanded. "Don't you know he's a
liar and a no-good scoundrel. Don't you know that nobody can believe
anything Brock says?"

"Yes," the sheriff slowly said. "But the barn was blown up. I went to
look. I didn't put any faith in what Brock said, but the warrant had
been sworn out and I had to act. So I went looking for Tommy--"

"With a gun in your hand, I suppose?" she said sharply.

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked at her then, just glanced up, but his gaze didn't falter.
"You know better than that, Miss Ellen," he said.

She flushed. Her temper had been running away with her and she knew it.
"I'm sorry," she said. "What happened?"

"I didn't have much trouble finding Tommy," the sheriff explained. "He
was crossing a field when I spotted him. I stopped my car and walked
toward him--_and he took a shot at me_."

Down in this country you may do a little private feuding with your
neighbors but there is one thing you don't do. You don't shoot at the
sheriff.

"He shot at you!" Ellen gasped. "Where did he get a gun?"

"He didn't have a gun."

Ellen's face showed confusion. "Then how did he shoot at you?" she
demanded.

"With that slingshot he always carries," the sheriff said.

Tommy's favorite weapon, in fact his only weapon, was a rubber
slingshot. A pocket full of pebbles and a sling was all he needed to be
happy.

"Sheriff," Ellen's voice was hot again. "Just because he shot at you
with a sling is no reason why you should call out a posse and run him
down like a mad dog?"

"No," the sheriff admitted. "Especially since he didn't hit me."

"He didn't hit you! And you--"

"He hit my car," the sheriff said.

Ellen's face blazed with anger. "So what? A few more nicks in that
rattle-trap of yours won't make any difference."

"No, Miss Ellen," the sheriff said, his voice dry and tense. "Not any
more."

"Not any more! _What are you talking about?_"

"Not any car any more," the sheriff said. "It blew up."

"Blew up!" the girl gasped.

"Sky high," the sheriff said. "Chunks of the motor landed a quarter of
a mile away. Piece of hot metal hit me--" He looked down at the bloody
sling holding his arm. "That's where I got this."

I had already seen what was left of his car, which was mostly a hole
in the ground. A case of dynamite wouldn't have blown it into smaller
pieces.

"I got two reasons for wanting to catch Tommy," the sheriff continued.
"First, I got a warrant that says I must arrest him. Second, I want to
look at those pebbles he's shooting out of that slingshot."

       *       *       *       *       *

You can damned well bet he wanted to look at those pebbles! So did I.
If a pebble small enough to be shot out of a sling could blow up a car,
it was a mighty powerful and mighty important chunk of rock. Think how
big an explosion a pebble as big as a baseball would make! Think how
many baseballs could be carried in a bomber!

_What was Tommy Sonofagun shooting in his sling?_

"I just can't believe it," Ellen said, when she had recovered from her
surprise. "Tommy didn't cause those explosions. Your car just happened
to blow up at that moment. Tommy didn't do it. He couldn't have done
it. It's--it's impossible."

The sheriff didn't argue with her and neither did I. We were both
watching what was happening down in Ten Mile Valley. Those bloodhounds,
after being baffled for a long time, had suddenly hit a hot trail.

Then Tommy appeared. He dashed across a glade in the cedar thickets,
running half bent over like some ungainly animal. He was so far away he
was just a little black dot but I saw him look back over his shoulder
at the dogs.

They were right behind him. I heard them break into an excited bugling
as they saw their prey and started running by sight instead of by scent.

Tommy frantically ran into the cedars.

The dogs raced across the glade after him. There were four of them,
running in a bunch, and giving tongue as they ran.

_They vanished in a puff of white light._

It happened almost too fast for the mind to grasp it. One second four
bloodhounds were running across the glade, the next second there was an
intense puff of light, the third second the whole glade seemed to take
wings and fly up into the air, the fourth second--

_Boom!_

The sound of the explosion reached us. A ball of smoke leaped upward
and the cedar trees bent over in a blast of air. In the silence that
followed came the faint clatter of stones falling back to the ground.
There wasn't another bark from those dogs. There weren't any dogs left
to do any barking.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sheriff's face turned a pasty gray. I believe from the bottom of my
heart that he is scared of nothing, that he doesn't know the meaning
of fear, but when that explosion came his face turned gray. He glanced
once at Ellen as if he was asking her if this confirmed the wisdom of
his decision to send a posse after Tommy Sonofagun. So far as I was
concerned, it did. Then he started walking away.

"Where are we going?" I called after him.

"Down there," he said, nodding toward the glade where the explosion had
taken place. "I reckon maybe I better get Tommy, if I can."

Ellen and I stayed on top of the ridge and watched. Ellen hadn't spoken
a word since the explosion but from the way she was holding on to my
arm, I knew how scared she was. I could feel her tremble.

The sheriff vanished among the cedars down below but I knew he was
down there somewhere stalking Tommy Sonofagun. I also knew that other
deputies were moving up from below while still another group had
probably cut across the valley up above. A grim trap was closing.

"What can it possibly mean?" Ellen whispered.

"It means you had better go home," I answered.

She wouldn't go. She was the Relief Lady and Tommy was somebody who
might need help.

It was already late in the afternoon. We stayed there on top of the
ridge while darkness fell and waited for--anything. I shivered every
time I thought of the explosion that had killed those four dogs. A hand
grenade would not have caused so much destruction. There wasn't any
chance of coincidence either. Those dogs had been after Tommy and he
had destroyed them.

"Ben," said Ellen suddenly. "We've got to find Tommy."

"Huh?" Even the idea startled me.

"We've got to find him before the posse does. Those men are scared and
they won't take any chances with him. Even the sheriff is scared. If
they find Tommy and he tries to run--and that's what he will try to
do--they'll shoot him. Ben, we've got to find him first, to save his
life."

It took some time for this to sink in. And when it did sink in, I
didn't like it. I tried to laugh it off. "A fine chance we have of
finding him when this posse can't."

"I can find him. I know where he is."

"What?"

"He has a cave about a mile from here. Every time he gets in trouble he
runs there and hides. That's where he was going when those dogs almost
caught him, to his cave. If we go there, we're almost certain to find
him."

"And get ourselves blown into mince-meat like those dogs!" I protested.

"He won't--do anything to me. He knows me. I'm his friend."

"Nuts, baby. We're not going."

"All right," she said defiantly. "I'll go alone." She started walking
away.

"All right," I groaned. "I'll go with you. But you're taking an unfair
advantage of me, and I know it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The cave was in a ravine that led off from Ten Mile Valley. By the time
we reached the place the moon was up but there wasn't much light down
in the bottom of the ravine. Clumps of cedars grew everywhere, making
dark blotches behind which anything might be lurking. A darker blotch
was the mouth of the cave.

"T--Tommy," Ellen called.

There was no answer. I stood there in the darkness and wished to hell I
was back in my office setting this story in type. Ellen was clinging to
me so hard she was about to pull my arm off.

A shadow seemed to move in the mouth of the cave.

"Tommy," Ellen said quickly. "Don't be afraid. We've brought you some
candy, Tommy. Don't you want some candy?"

Silence. A wind went whispering through the cedars, setting my teeth to
chattering.

"We have some candy, Tommy?"

There was a tiny creak, as of somebody shifting his weight. It came
from the cave. I did not in the least doubt but that Tommy Sonofagun
was standing there looking out at us, slingshot in hand, trying to make
up his poor mind if we were after him. At this moment my memory chose
to remind me of what had happened to those bloodhounds. They had been
after him too. Anything that was after him he would shoot at.

Cold sweat was dripping from under my arms and running down my body.

"Why don't you come down and get the candy we brought you?" Ellen asked.

"Scared," a dull, choked voice said from the mouth of the cave.

Tommy was there all right. He was watching us. He wanted candy. But he
was scared.

He wasn't a tenth as scared as I was! Dillinger with a pistol would not
have been near as dangerous as this half man who lurked in the cave
mouth. You could talk to Dillinger. He wouldn't shoot without a reason.
You could talk to Tommy but he wouldn't understand.

"You needn't be scared," Ellen said. "We won't hurt you. Don't you
remember all the candy I've brought you? Don't you remember that new
pair of overalls I brought you last month? Weren't they fine overalls,
Tommy?"

"Uh-huh. Nice. Wearin' 'em now." He didn't sound quite so hostile.

"Come and get the candy," Ellen said, opening her purse.

       *       *       *       *       *

It took her five minutes to get him down out of that cave. Those were
five minutes of hell for me. Ellen's voice showed no trace of concern,
no fear, no worry. Listening to her, you would have thought she hadn't
a care in the world. Only the way she was holding on to my arm showed
me how scared she was.

"Here," she said, handing him a candy bar.

He ate it, paper cover, tin foil, and all. He didn't look at me. He saw
me all right but he didn't trust me so he didn't glance in my direction.

"How did you make the big noises?" Ellen quietly asked.

"Huh? Big noises?"

He sounded scared again. I took a firm grip on a lungful of air and
prepared to hold on to it.

"The big booms," Ellen said. "You know, like firecrackers, only lots
louder. They sure were fine noises."

"You like 'em, huh? Want hear more big noises, huh? Fourth of July
noises, huh?"

My eyes had become accustomed to the darkness and I saw him lift his
arms and stretch his slingshot rubbers. "Want more noises, huh?" he
asked proudly.

"Not now, Tommy," Ellen said quickly, a sudden catch in her voice. "Let
me see one of the firecrackers that make the big noises."

"Huh?" He lowered his arms but he held the sling ready. His grunt was
full of suspicion.

"I'll give you another candy bar for one of your firecrackers," Ellen
said quickly. She opened her purse and I heard the rattle of waxed
paper. "I'll trade you a candy bar for a firecracker. You want another
candy bar, don't you, Tommy? Remember how good that last candy bar was?"

He remembered all right. His eyes never left the bar of chocolate she
was holding toward him.

I went right on holding my breath.

"Okay," he said suddenly. "Trade." He took something out of the pocket
of his sling, dropped it in Ellen's hand, grabbed the candy bar, and
started eating.

"Flashlight," Ellen whispered to me. To Tommy she said, "We're going
to turn on a flashlight so we can look at the firecracker. It's a good
candy bar, isn't it, Tommy?"

My hands were shaking so badly I could barely hold the light. Ellen was
holding the firecracker in the palm of her hand. I took one look at it,
and I didn't believe my eyes.

It was about the size of a big pea. It wasn't as big as a grape. It
looked like a small round pebble.

This was the bomb that had caused those terrific explosions!

"Is this what made the big noises?" Ellen asked.

"Sure," Tommy said, stopping eating long enough to talk. "Make big
boom. Want more? Got plenty." He reached into a pocket of his overalls
and brought out a handful. "Good shootin' rocks," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

I just didn't believe it. There are mental limits beyond which the mind
refuses to function. It was impossible to think that such a tiny pellet
could cause so much destruction.

I took Tommy's sling, put the pellet in the pocket, stretched the
rubbers as far as they would go, and released them. I had to see with
my own eyes, I had to know, I had to be sure.

I damned well found out! Although the explosion took place at least
seventy-five yards away, it blew me off my feet. A great bulge of flame
leaped into the sky and the heavens roared with the thunder of the
sound.

Tommy jumped up and down in excitement. "Big noise! Goody, goody! Want
more booms?"

"N--nnn--no," I stuttered, picking myself up from the ground.

"Ben, you idiot!" Ellen snapped. "The sheriff will hear that. No,
Tommy, no more booms right now. Where did you get those firecrackers,
Tommy? Where did you get them?"

Firecrackers, hell! Those things were the mightiest explosive bombs for
their weight ever used on earth! In violence they backed TNT right off
the map. Nitroglycerin was not a tenth as powerful. If a pellet that
weighed a fraction of an ounce could cause such an explosion, how big
an explosion would a hundred-pound bomb make?

One bomber could sneak in out of the clouds and smash a city!

One bomb would do the job!

_Where had Tommy Sonofagun gotten those round pebbles that exploded
with such violence?_

"Candy?" he said questioningly. "More candy?"

"I'll give you a barrel of candy if you will show us where you got
these things!" I said. I was scared sick. I was remembering Pearl
Harbor, the _Prince of Wales_, and the _Repulse_. Had bombs such as
these sent those two gallant ships to the bottom?

If this had happened, how had similar bombs gotten here to the heart
of America? Where were these round pebbles coming from? Obviously
Tommy had found them somewhere, but _where_? Who had made them?

"A barrel of candy!" Tommy gasped. "G--gosh!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Grabbing his slingshot from the ground where I had dropped it, he
started off, motioning us to follow him. Stumbling, following him as
best we could, he led us straight to one of the transmission line
towers!

"It was attempted sabotage!" I gasped. "Somebody tried to blow up the
high-line but their bombs didn't explode. Tommy found their explosives!"

This was a reasonable guess. If one of these big steel towers went
down, a lot of defense industries that were dependent upon the juice
flowing through the cables overhead, would have to shut down.

"Got 'em right here," Tommy said.

He shambled toward the legs of the tower, which formed an arch
overhead. He was holding one of Ellen's hands and I was holding the
other. We were strung out in a line. I could hear current singing in
the transmission line as he went under the arch formed by the legs of
the tower. It was a high, thin, wailing sound, and it meant that juice
was leaking somewhere.

He stepped through the arch, and vanished.

Ellen, following a step behind him, vanished.

I took another step, which brought me under the arch, _and the tower
vanished_!

One second it was there over my head, a steel lattice climbing skyward.
The next second, no tower.

No sky, no stars, no moon. No hillside, no high-line, no night.

My tongue took a running jump and dived down into my throat to hide.

"Wh--wh--wh--what the hell--" I heard my own voice say.

I was in what looked like a big building. On one side was a lot of
hooded machinery that was clicking softly to itself. I had the fleeting
impression that this machinery was largely automatic in operation, that
raw materials were being fed in from some source overhead and finished
articles were rolling out into a large hopper. A soft blue light came
from the walls of the building, which seemed to be windowless.

Ellen was standing right in front of me. The only movement about her
was a flutter of her eye-lids. She seemed to be frozen stiff.

I was pretty well frozen myself. What the devil had happened to us?
where were we?

       *       *       *       *       *

Mad thoughts were bouncing up and down inside my brain. I had the
impression I had gone insane.

Tommy wasn't scared. He didn't seem to mind what had happened.
Something that would scare a man with sense to the verge of hysterics
had no effect on him. He understood almost nothing about the world in
which he lived and consequently anything was possible to him. There
are times when being a moron has its advantages. This was one of those
times. This building did not astonish Tommy, nor was he perturbed about
the miraculous way in which we had entered it.

He ran over to the hopper in front of the big machine, thrust both
hands into it, and came running back to us, his hands held out in front
of him.

"Firecrackers!" he said exultantly.

He had a double handful of the round explosive pellets. The machine was
manufacturing them. They were being made right here in this windowless
building, in Ten Mile Valley.

This was where Tommy had got those incredible bombs. Somehow he had
stumbled into this hidden place.

He looked expectantly up at me.

"Gimme bar'l of candy?" he said hopefully.

My tongue was still hiding down in my throat as if it was determined
to have no part in the lies it knew I was going to tell. "S--sure," I
stuttered. "I'll get the candy for you as soon as we get back to town.
But Tommy, where are we?"

That was the question! Where were we?

"Huh?" said Tommy. Then he added, in explanation, "We're here!"

Hell, I knew that! What I wanted to know was where _here_ was. I tried
another tack. "Where did this building, all these machines, where did
they come from?"

He shrugged. The question was over his head. "Find 'em here," he said.
He looked hopefully at me. "Candy for Tommy Sonofagun?"

His little mind ran on one track. The building was here, the machines
were here, facts to be accepted without question, just like the hills
and the rain. He had found them here. That was all he knew about them.

"Let's get out of this place," I said to Ellen. There was a dazed,
glazed expression in her eyes. Her mind had refused to accept the
evidence of her eyes and she had stopped thinking.

In my mind was pure panic. Never in my life had I wanted to run so
badly. The only thing that interested me was to get out of this place,
fast! I was starting to do just that when a voice stopped me.

"Here's that thief again," the voice said. At least that was what I
thought it said. The words were English but they weren't like the
English I know. The accent was all wrong and they were run together in
a sing-songy effect. I turned to see who had spoken.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two men were standing in a door at the far end of the building.
Apparently they had just entered. Dressed in glittering clothes, stern
faced, they didn't look like any people I wanted to meet. I grabbed
Ellen and started to run.

"Alt!" the command came.

I wasn't doing any halting. I was out of my mind from sheer fright. My
sole interest lay in getting out of that place. I was so confused I
didn't realize I didn't know how to get out and I did the only thing
possible, which was to turn and run.

As it worked out, this was exactly the right thing to do. A split
second after I started to run, the building vanished.

I was back at the high-line tower, not under it but beside it, with the
night and the stars and the moon around me, and the high-pitched whine
of leaking current in my ears. I was back where I had started from and
no building full of automatic machinery was in sight.

"W--what's the matter?" Tommy gibbered beside me. He sensed how scared
I was and this scared him.

Ellen had quietly fainted. I threw her over my shoulder.

"Run!" I shouted at Tommy.

With him at my heels, I started making tracks away from there.

"Alt!" came a high-pitched command from behind me.

A streak of light drove through the night, passed within a foot of my
head. It seemed to set the darkness on fire. The two men had taken a
shot at us.

This was all Tommy needed to convince him that something was really
after him. He was already scared and when that streak of light went
past us, he went crazy. Crouching and turning, he stretched the rubbers
of that slingshot.

"Don't shoot!" I screamed at him.

It was too late. The rubbers blurred as he released the sling.

Looking back I caught a glimpse of the two men. It was the same two
all right. They were standing beside the tower. Looking completely
bewildered, they were making no effort to stop us.

Then the pellet hit them.

_Blooie!_

       *       *       *       *       *

The blast hurled me forward but I managed to keep my feet and keep
running. Fire spouted skyward, there was a crack of breaking steel.

The tower was falling. The explosion had knocked the legs out from
under it and it was falling.

Somewhere over my head was a thrumming snap. I knew what it meant. The
copper high-line cables, strained by the falling tower, were about to
break. There were sixty-six thousand volts of electricity in those
twanging cables.

With Ellen in my arms I dived into a ravine. As I hit and rolled the
night was cataclysmic with bursting flame. Arcs like bright flashes of
lightning leaped against the sky as the cables parted. The live ends
hit the ground and writhed like giant snakes spewing fifteen-feet-long
streams of molten fire. There was juice in those cables, plenty of
juice, and it was running wild.

Somewhere, somebody screamed. Tommy! He was screaming. As if his scream
was a signal, the whole earth seemed to gather itself together and
hunch upward in one violent explosive blast. It knocked me cold. As I
blacked out, I saw a great spout of flame leaping toward the stars and
I remember thinking that the whole vault of heaven was on fire. Then
something seemed to hit me on the head and I quit thinking.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I regained consciousness I was in a hospital and a nurse was
bending over me. As soon as I opened my eyes, she went dashing out of
the room, to return with a doctor. He poked and pried at me and finally
said that he thought I would live. From the way I felt, this was more
than I expected.

The doctor had no more than left until there was a violent argument at
the door. The nurse was telling someone that I couldn't have company
and somebody else was saying I was going to have company, or else. Then
Ellen was bending over me. "Ben, are you badly hurt?"

I told her what the doctor had said and the relief that flooded her
face almost made me feel romantic. She had a big patch of adhesive tape
on her face and a lot of scratches and bruises but she was able to walk.

"Ben, what happened?" she asked. "Those two men, that building, those
machines--"

"And those atomic bombs!" I said.

"What? Atomic bombs? I don't understand. What were those men doing,
Ben?"

"Sabotage," I said firmly.

"But it couldn't have been sabotage," she protested. "If they had
wanted to blow up the high-line, they could have done it without any
trouble. And that building and the high-line tower existed in the same
place. Ben, it couldn't have been attempted sabotage. There must be
some other explanation. I've thought and I've thought and I don't see
the answer."

"Just the same, it was sabotage," I said. "That's the way I am going to
write the story."

"You will be lying, Ben," said a voice from the doorway. I looked up.
It was the sheriff. He came walking into the room. His arm was still in
a sling and his face looked grayer than ever.

"How did you get here?" I stuttered.

"I found you and brought you in," he said. "The two of you." He pulled
up a chair and sat down in a manner that indicated he planned to stay a
while. "Now tell me the truth, you two," he said. "Tell me just exactly
what happened, the way it happened."

"You will call us liars," I protested.

"That may be," he admitted. "But I want to hear it just the same."

       *       *       *       *       *

So we told him. He sat there and listened without a sign of expression
on his face. For all the emotion he showed, he might have been made out
of wood.

"What do you make of it, Ben," he said at last, when we had finished.

"Sabotage," I said.

"What do you really think, Ben?" he came back.

"Well," I said slowly. "There was a slight leakage of current down that
particular tower. I think this leakage and the particular way in which
it took place accidentally combined to make us the first time travelers
in human history!"

Ellen gasped at that but the sheriff didn't blink an eye.

"Go on," he said.

"I think that building exists in the future," I said. "I think it will
exist some day and that it exists now and if we could cross time we
could see it. Those men spoke a strange kind of English. That points
to the future. They were making atomic bombs. We don't know how to
make atomic bombs now but we will know how to do it, in the future. I
think that building we entered was an arsenal of the future that will
be built in Ten Mile Valley in some coming century. You asked me what I
think and I've told you," I defiantly finished. "If you don't like it,
you can think up your own explanation."

He didn't budge. "Tommy?" he said, his voice a question.

"Tommy accidentally blundered through the arch made by the legs of the
tower. He found a machine making tiny atomic bombs. He didn't know
they were bombs. He thought they were fine pebbles to shoot in his
slingshot. And that's what he used them for. They exploded on contact.
Maybe they were designed to be dropped from an airplane, hundreds at a
time. Maybe they were to be used in interplanetary war. I don't know
why they were being made. All I know is that an idiot found them, and
thought they would be fine things to shoot in a sling. Incidentally,
what happened to Tommy?"

I had forgotten all about Tommy Sonofagun.

"We found pieces of him," the sheriff sighed. "He had a pocketful of
those pebbles when the falling cables hit him. They all exploded at
once."

Poor Tommy Sonofagun. He would never get his barrel of candy.

Decisively the sheriff got to his feet. He stopped at the door and
looked back. "You are right, Ben," he said. "It was attempted sabotage."

And that's the way it went down in the official records, that's the way
I wrote the story for my paper. The public would be willing to believe
in sabotage. But would they be willing to believe in time travel?

Not this century!





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE INCREDIBLE SLINGSHOT BOMBS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


